well hey there we dive back in time and
into the oceans over a half a billion
years ago
just you know because we can whoa watch
out
it's not megalodon or giant seat
reptiles you need to look out for here
it's a bizarre unearthly looking
creature called
anomalocaris the name means unlike any
other shrimp
and i think you'll agree it looks like a
nightmarish cross
between a shrimp and a modern day
centipede
two tentacles protruding from its face
each lined with
razor-sharp teeth oh yeah and this thing
was about the size of your leg
with a wave-like movement of the flaps
on each side of its body
it was graceful for a terrifying
creature it was also
more advanced than any other life on
this planet at the time
especially those huge eyes you
have only one lens in each of yours this
giant shrimp had 16
000 that's four times more than a common
house fly
and you know how good their vision is
good enough to dodge that swatter
every time all this allowed annie to
become one of the first animals on this
planet to feed on others
yep here it is earth's first hunter
its favorite meal trilobites hey try a
bite
those are the ancient ancestors of crabs
some of their fossils have marks on them
in the same shape
as the monster shrimp's mouth parts
terrors of the past like this got to be
so giant
thanks to more oxygen in the atmosphere
a perfect example of this
mega neuropsys imagine a dragonfly
now make it as big as a cat and with a
wingspan longer than your arm
megan the monster-sized dragonfly could
easily grab other insects or even
small animals and she ruled the air with
quick movements
back then there were still no large
birds or other airborne enemies for this
behemoth bug
so it was safe and free to grow as large
as this planet would allow
piranhas of the past were also jumbo
sized
mega piranha was about three times the
size of the river terrors we have today
its bite force was about the same as a
tigers and those striped kitties bite
down
two times harder than lions that means
it probably
not only died on other fish and any land
creatures that
you know got too close to the water but
it could also
easily crunch down on large turtles and
other
unlucky shelled creatures and fun fact
modern-day piranhas bark like dogs when
they're about to enter a confrontation
it actually sounds more like a frog's
ribbon but
makes you wonder what did this
mega-sized ancient cousin
sound like a bear roaring
how about giant sea scorpions the size
of your bed
go back about 460 million years and
you'd see them
swimming under you and watch out for
that tail
scientists still don't know if these
creatures could use it to inject venom
like your standard land scorpion
but something tells me i wouldn't want
that thing
anywhere near me then
there's this guy therizinosaurus
terry looks sort of like a goose with
long arms
oh and did i mention this goose dino is
about two stories tall
and longer than a bus yao its arms make
the t-rex's look even more bite-sized
each eight feet long almost triple the
length of t-rex's
and on the end razor-sharp claws the
size of your whole
arm now don't worry about those lengthy
claws too much though
terry probably used them to cut through
giant termite nests
so this huge reptilian goose was more
interested in eating bugs and plants
another mega monster for you megatherium
the giant ground sloth could look a
giraffe straight in the
eye and weighed as much as a hippo it
moved
mainly on its hind legs and used its
massive tail as support
he had huge paws with colossal
knife-sized claws
the sloth could use them to defend
itself from enemies and to bend tree
branches in search of food
but the biggest danger to the giant
ground sloth wasn't dinosaurs or
saber-toothed tigers
it was our own species yep humans showed
up just in time
to meet this fellow and to eat them up
titanoboa was a terrifying 50-foot snake
as long as the great megalodon itself it
was also more than two times heavier
than the heavyweight champion among
snakes today
the green anaconda crocodiles were a
regular
on this serpent's menu titanoboa could
swim
three times faster than the fastest
olympic swimmer
our species has ever seen it was quicker
and more dangerous in the water than
outside it
and don't forget the boa part of its
name this massive snake wasn't venomous
instead it like to squeeze
remember that giant shrimp from earlier
well opa-benia
looks like it's teeny tiny finger-sized
cousin
and instead of two toothy tentacles this
thing had a vacuum hose coming out of
its face
on the end of that trunk what looks like
a single crab claw
add five eyes and a mouth under its head
and you've got a recipe for something
not of this planet
only it is this creature uses trunk like
an elephant does
its claw grabbed food from the bottom of
the ocean and brought it up to its mouth
this thing is so weird looking that
apparently when the scientists who
discovered it
presented his findings to an audience
they all laughed as if he were joking
now a real life monster the tully
monster
from a distance it looks a bit like
messi that long
neck and teeth-lined jaws but get closer
and you'll see it's more like a long
nose with a mouth attached at the end
like a mosquito
its eyes are further back sticking out
of tubes all
snail-like tully was an ancient mollusk
about the size of your forearm it
probably died on jellyfish and shrimp
300 million years ago
thylaka smylus will put a smile on your
face
as long as you don't get too close no
it's not a relative of the saber-tooth
tiger
it was a marsupial making it more
related to a kangaroo than anything
and if you compare them to body size its
fangs were actually longer than the
saber-toothed tigers
and they grew continuously as for that
beard on its chin
that's actually all chin the lower jaw
bone grew down to a point
under the mouth those fangs were rooted
to the skull
going way back to its eyes when the
mouth was closed
that bony beard protected the long sharp
teeth from breakage
stag annapolis not to be confused with
minneapolis
might look like a big crocodile with a
squished-in snout
but it was mostly harmless its small
head and very few teeth
meant the reptile didn't have much to
work with when protecting itself
that's what all those armored scales
were for and no need for huge fangs or
long rows of razor sharp teeth
when you're a plant eater that beak-like
tip on its nose allow the stag to dig up
plants
so really this reptile was more like a
10-foot scaly pig than a croc
basilosaurus was a type of ancient whale
that lived on our planet about 45
million years ago
not quite as long as a blue whale but
this guy was still big enough to munch
down on other whales
and even sharks some people believe
these monsters could still exist today
eyewitnesses claim to have seen a giant
sea dragon
and basilosaurus fits the description
plus
90 percent of our oceans are unexplored
there's plenty of space to hide a sea
monster
but scientists haven't found any fossils
of this ancient whale
younger than 3.7 million years so
this myth is busted
stegosaurus is one of the most
recognizable dinosaurs that ever lived
it can easily be distinguished by those
huge spikes on its tail
and the bony plates on its back it was
twice as long as a giraffe and nearly
five times heavier
but compared to its body size it had the
world's smallest brain
it was no larger than a dog's
peligornis had the largest wingspan of
any bird ever discovered
it was twice the size of the largest
bird today the wandering albatross
such huge wings made it hard for the
bird to take off it could only do so by
jumping off cliffs and when it finally
spread its wings
this giant could only go about 40 miles
per hour
the fastest bird today can reach speeds
five times that